The linux system allows you to control your shell scripts by using signals.
The bash shell accepts signals and passes them on to any process running under the shell process.
Linux signals allow you to easily kill a runaway process or temporarily pause a long running process.

you can use The 'trap' statement in your scripts to catch signals and perform commands. 
This feature provides a simple way to control whether a user can interrupt your script while its running.

By default, when you run a script in a terminal session shell, the interactive shell is suspended until the script completes.
You can cause a script or command to run in background mode by adding an ampersand sign (&) after the command name.
When you run a script or command in background mode, the interactive shell returns, allowing you to continue entering more commands. 
Any background processes run using this method are still tied to the terminal session.
If you exit the terminal session, the background processes also exit.

To prevent this from happening, use the 'nohup' command. This command intercepts any signals intended for the command that wuld stop it :
for example: When you exit the terminal session. This allows scripts to continue running in background mode even if you exit the terminal session

When you move a process to background mode, you can still control what happens to it. 
The jobs command allows you to view processed started from the shell session.
Once your know the job ID of a background process, you can use the 'kill' command to send Linux signals to the process or 
use the 'fg' command to bring the process back to the  foreground in the shell session. 
You can suspend a running foreground processs by using the 'CTRL + Z' key combination 
and then place it back in background mode, using the 'bg' command

The nice and renice commands allow you to change the priority level of a process. 
By giving a process a lower priority, you allow the CPU to allocate less time to it. 
This comes in handy when running long processes that can take lots of CPU time.

In addition to controlling processes while they're running, you can also determine when process starts on the system.
Instead of running a script directly from the command line interface prompt, you can schedule the process to run at a script once at a preset time.
The cron program provides an interface that can run scripts at a regularly scheduled interval.

Finally, the Linux system provides script files for you to use for scheduling your scripts to run either at system boot time 
or whenever a user starts a new bash shell.
Distribution have different files that allow you to list scripts that start each time the system boots.
This premits system administrators to run special scripts for system maintenance at boot time.
Similarly, the .bash_profile and .bashrc files are located in every user's home directory to provide a location to place scripts 
and commands that run with a new shell. The .bash_profile file runs scripts each time a user logs in to the system,
and the .bashrc file runs script on each new shell instance.


