The sed editor provides some advance featues that allow you to work with text patterns across multiple lines.
This chapter showed you how to use the next command to retrieve the next line in a data stream and place it in the pattern space.
Once in the pattern space, you can perform complex substitution commands to replace phrases that span more than on line of text.

The multiline delete command allows you to remove the first line when the pattern space contains two or more lines.
This is convenient way to iterate through multiple lines in the data stream. Similarly, the multiline print command allows you  to print just the first line when the pattern space contains two or more lines of text.
the combination of the multiline commands allows you to iterate through the data stream and create multiline substitution system.

the hold space allows you to set aside a line of text while processing more lines of text. 
You can recall the contents of the hold space at any time and either replace the text in the pattern space or append the contents of the hold space to the text in the pattern space. 
Using the hold space allows you to sort through data streams, reversing the order of text lines as they appear in the data.

the chapte ralso discussed the sed editor flwo control commands. 
The branch command provides a way for you to alter the normal flow of sed editor commands in the script, creating loops or skipping commands unde certain conditions.
The text command provides an if-then type of statment for your sed editor command scripts.
The text command branches only if a prior substitution command succeeds in replacing text in a line

A common technique for large sed scripts is to place the script in a shell wrapper.
You can command line parameter variables within the sed script to pass shell command line, or even from other shell scripts.



### THE Hold Space
The pattern space is an active buffer area that holds the text examined by the sed editor while it processes commands.
However, it isn't the only space available in the sed editor for storing text.
The sed editor utilizes another buffer area called the hold space. You can use the hold space to temporarily hold lines of text while working on the other lines in the pattern.
Command		Description
 h	 Copy pattern space to hold space
 H	 Append pattern space to hold space
 g	 Copy hold space to pattern space
 G	 Append hold space to pattern space
 x	 Exchange contents of pattern and hold spaces.


